Okeydokey.
So next up we have our last logical operator which is called not.
It's also known as logical negation and it's pretty simple compared to and and or because all that it
does it only works if the one logical or one piece of logic at a time and it will be truthy.
If the opposite of A is true which you know hearing yourself say that it sounds really confusing but
a simple example if we had a variable called is weekend this weekend is either true or false.
We can do it.
If not is WEEKEND we'll print go to work.
Now that's a really really simple example.
Most of the time we actually use it to negate other pieces of logic.
So let me just show you an example.
First of all we could do something like.
So we have you know one is of less than let's make a variable and we'll call it age.
This time is 10.
So we could have a statement like age is less than four and that's false.
But if I just do not age less than four it's true.
So it just flipped it turned to the other way around.
So that's a silly example.
But if we go to a file so I'll quit this and I'll make a new file called not p y and in here that's
just hard code age to start.
And let's just say age is 21.
OK so we're doing our movie tickets again.
And so the age groups are going to be between if you are from two to six or two to eight.
It's a $2 ticket.
And if you're a senior citizen which is you're over 65 it is a I don't know maybe a five dollar ticket.
And for other people.
So basically the people who are not between two and eight and not six they're not 65 or greater they're
going to pay $10.
OK.
So if we wanted to just target the people who are going to pay $10 what we could do.
And you'll have to stick with me here.
We're going to start by just targeting the people who are between two and eight.
So that's going to be is age greater than or equal to two and it's age less than or equal to eight.
So that gives us our first group.
Then we also have OK is age greater than or equal to 65.
So these are you know for senior citizens this is for children.
So what we can do now and this is going to be a big step we're going to combine these two with an oar.
So this is growing out of control but we're going to add parentheses here to make it clear what happens
where.
OK.
So we have our first thing is to check is age between 2 and eight or is age greater than or equal to
65.
Right.
So if it's either one of those that means that it's either you know a child or a senior citizen.
So we can choose not to negate the entire thing.
So the we want the opposite of this to be true.
Now I realize this is a bit of a stretch but let's just walk through it again.
So we're basically saying if we are not if age is not between 2 and 8 and age is not greater than 65
and the reason that it's an end is because the not would negate this.
OK so let's plug something in let's say age is 21.
All right.
So 21 is not 21 is greater than or equal to two.
But it's not less than or equal to eight.
So this becomes right here false that we have false or is age greater than or equal to 65.
That's also false over here.
So false or false.
That whole thing is false because we need one side to be true so it's false.
Not false turned it into true yeah I have a feeling that may have been a bit of a bit more than I should
have in this video but I'm going to leave it in here.
I'll do some simpler examples afterwards.
But let's just add an if at this point.
So Will do.
If that's the case we will print you pay $10 and are not a child or citizen or senior and are not a
child or senior.
OK.
Let's test it out.
So we're going to run Python 3 not p y.
And we get you paid $10 an hour not a child or senior but if we change this.
Now to be 7 rerun it we don't get anything so let's add or else
you are a child or senior.
Now one thing that you should probably consider is that it would be in most situations we might want
to just say we could restructure this in a much better way where we could do.
If you're a child you pay this else if you are a senior you play this.
Pay this else then you pay $10.
But for the sake of this example I did it this way.
So if we are seven we get you are a child or senior If we are 78 meaning we're senior we get you our
child or senior.
OK.
So I know that that was it.
That was a lot adding in these parentheses in particular.
But the idea is that not will negate whatever comes after it.
And because we have parentheses this is going to go first that turns into false.
So we then we have false
or age greater than 65.
Well in this case that's true because it's 78 so false or true becomes true and then we negate that
with not which turns the whole thing into false.
So if false This doesn't run so then else runs Yeah I know it's a lot.
OK so I'll leave it at this for now.
If you want we can do a couple of really quick examples.
You could do something like one less than two.
That's true.
But if we put not there not note not it's now false.
We could get slightly more complicated with not one greater than three and five equals equals five.
So what's the result of this.
Well it's one greater than three.
Nope.
So that's false false.
And it's five equal to five.
That's true so false and true that whole thing is false but we're negating it all making it true.
Yeah yeah I know it's it kind of feels crazy to be doing these sort of examples.
I know but hopefully you were able to follow along with this here.
I know it's pretty gross and ugly but this is what we do with the logical operators so that the idea
is that we're stringing together comparison's individual comparisons with Orr's ants and nuts.
OK.